---
layout: post
title: "I did the course twice"
blog-date: 18. November '14 
cohort: Spring '14
author: Pastor
picture: "/img/picsOfUs/pastor1.jpg"
href: 2014/11/18/pastor-blogpost.html
summary: I studied philosophy, I worked in customer service for a mobile company, strategy in a pharmaceutical laboratory, accounting in an insurance company and a company that worked with fashion. I was avolunteer in different charities, I worked for the government. Later on I studied an MBA. But I was not happy and I always liked computers. Last year I decided to start programming and I started teaching myself...
---

I studied philosophy, I worked in customer service for a mobile
company, strategy in a pharmaceutical laboratory, accounting in an
insurance company and a company that worked with fashion. I was a
volunteer in different charities, I worked for the government. Later
on I studied an MBA. But I was not happy and I always liked computers.
Last year I decided to start programming and I started teaching myself
Java. After a couple of months I realised it was taking me too long
and I enrolled for a course at City University. It was good, but not
enough to be a developer.

In December I decided to change and I started learning HTML, CSS, some
JavaScript and PHP and with my brother we created some websites. At
that time I met a friend at a party and she told me about Founders &
Coders, but it was already too late to get on board. So when the next
course opened I sent an expression of interest and then a video. I was
accepted and that changed my life!

For two months I was going to Camden Town. Dan introduced us to Python
through Udacity. In the mornings I followed the course (mixed with
some exercises), at midday we had a short lesson to complement the
course or to explain some things, and in the afternoon we coded. In
the last hour randomly some of us had to show our code and explain it.
No matter how bad it was. We followed two courses, the first was an
introduction to Programming (3 weeks) and the second was more
advanced. I suffered not being able to do basic things, but I kept
trying and trying and trying. Some exercises took me two days to
solve. But when you do it, it is a wonderful feeling of achievement.

After finishing that course Dan told us that he was planning a
JavaScript course, so I asked him if I could join it. He accepted me
if I agreed to help him as a teaching assistant. So I went into this
second course. Now it was completely different. We didn't follow any
course. There were four groups of four people. Every week started with
a challenge, like creating a blog, using an API, or creating an
interactive map with world cocaine prices. This was very, very hard on
everybody. There was lots of stress to meet the deadlines. Not only
did we learn to code, but we learnt to manage a project, to interact
with the other members of the group, to research, to be better people.
We had to sacrifice a lot of our time to do things and everybody did
it. There was a lot of commitment, a lot of effort and it paid back.

At the graduation party real developers approached me and they asked
me if I was interested in joining the company they work for. It was
like a dream come true. I sent my CV, I went to an interview and then
I started working. Now I am developing full time and learning a lot
and on top of that getting paid!